# Raiders

For the past fourteen months, this band of armed combatants has been harassing [Evergreen](../places/evergreen.md) with surprise attacks and guerilla warfare: raiding outlying farmsteads for supplies, picking off militia patrols outside the walls, and targeting infrastructure projects — especially the colony's expansion. Their motus operandi remains unclear, but [Patience](../people/landmark/patience.md) believes that they're claim-jumpers; [Hercynia](../things/hercynia.md) is a world ripe for exploitation, and [Landmark Colonial's](../factions/landmark-colonial.md) investment is a high-risk project with little to no security detail other than its own citizens.

They appear to be at home in the jungle, implying a degree of experience with this kind of hit-and-run skirmishing. Their frames appear to be largely jury-rigged and hand-maintained, and armored with segments of some kind of hard, rigid organic material — which to some is proof that they're with the [Egregorians](../things/egregorians.md) and hellbent on wiping the colony away, and to some is simply proof that the raiders are clever enough to appropriate the exoskeletons of Hercynia's most prolific crustaceans.

Following the last engagement, three raiders have been taken captive. Their callsigns appear to be [Psalm](../people/huc/psalm.md), [Mimi](../people/huc/mimi.md), [Appalachia](../people/huc/appalachia.md). Unfortunately, it seems that there is a significant language barrier; they speak a language that seems to share very old roots with SecComm-era conlangs but use a heavily divergent dialect of it that translation software is largely unable to parse. Work is ongoing, but without help from yourselves, Patience has little resources to dedicate to non-critical affairs.

Both Evergreen and the [Gray Towns](../places/gray-towns.md) have been affected by the ongoing raids.