# Merricktown
Merricktown is the largest of the [Gray Towns](../gray-towns.md), situated upriver east of [Evergreen](../evergreen.md).
## Layout and Surroundings
Merricktown is a sprawling complex of farms, workshops, and frontier shops built up along the southern bank of the river some seventy kilometers to the east of Evergreen. Jacob's estate — the single native source of coffee on [Hercynia](../../things/hercynia.md) — is where the town began, and it dominates the bank of the river in the heart of town. Everything else is built around it: a mixture of prefab canister houses and stilted homes built from native materials hunker behind a lively facade of shops, depots, and hostelries along the coastal road.

Situated right up against the water, the river is a vital part of Merricktown's infrastructure. The town gets its electricity from ponderous water mills submerged in the muddy sluice, while a complex network of docks enables shipping boats to load and unload their goods.
## Culture
Merricktown is the youngest settlement of its size. It sprouted up around the estate of a savvy, well-to-do homesteader by the name of Jacob Merrick — one of the first true homesteaders to set foot on Hercynia. Jacob banked on Evergreen's eventual success and received a charter from [Landmark Colonial](../../factions/landmark-colonial.md) to establish a coffee plantation run by himself, his relatives, and a sizable crew of subalterns guided by an NHP and family friend named Opportunity. The Merricks' gambit succeeded, and once they established themselves as the sole native producer of coffee, a settlement — legitimized by the continued existence of Liu Maize — grew to life around the farm grounds almost as a matter of course.

Practically speaking, Jacob Merrick runs the town as its mayor. Still operating out of the farmhouse that everything started from, he has seen the town evolve from supporting infrastructure for the plantation into a bustling commercial center that provides service and hospitality to drone crews and workers based out of Evergreen while simultaneously serving as a de facto logistics hub for shipping and homesteading in the entire region. When harvest season comes and Evergreen's farms overflow with produce, it's Merricktown trucks that bring them through the colony gates.

Merricktown has a thriving gray market of offworld imports. Evergreen may have the most luxuries thanks to their ownership of the landing bowl, but facilitating a major trade route has its benefits — and up until Union locked down traffic to and from the planet, it's strongly suspected that they had their own off-the-books imports, too, free of the scrutiny and rationing that the colony itself exercises over its things. It's much looser with Landmark regulations and rules than Evergreen is, but otherwise osmoses much of the colony's culture; there is significant intermingling between the two towns every day.

Merricktown has been ill-prepared to deal with the ongoing [raids](../../factions/huc.md). While there has been no direct attacks on the town itself, a large influx of refugees has sought shelter within the Gray Towns following the razing out of outlying farmsteads; Liu Maize is remote, but Merricktown is not, and their infrastructure has been overwhelmed by the sudden tide of scared, tired people. Merrick himself never expected nor wanted to run a town, and without administrative help from Evergreen, the situation has only gotten worse.
## Locations
### Merrick Estate
Merricktown's foundational landmark and beating heart is the Merrick estate: the sole coffee farm on Hercynia. Even in its heyday it was a sprawling tangle of farmland and infrastructure; now it dominates the entire southern floodplain. Coffee may no longer be the sole lifeblood of the town, but it remains their biggest export, and the reason that Landmark's hands have been tied on dealings with the settlement — Evergreeners and homesteaders alike would riot without their coffee.

Nowadays the estate also does double duty as the city's bureaucratic center, and is home to a small number of offices and archives that help coordinate the burgeoning settlement's makeshift government. There's a colonial legend in Evergreen that the name of the Governor's Farm was inspired by Merricktown, whose municipal core is a very literal farm... but nobody has any proof either way, of course.