# HIP 25205

[Ngoc Linh Station](ngoc-linh.md) is constructed in the HIP 25205 system, just five light years away from the Orion constellation. An A5-type star, it burns fifty percent hotter than Sol and shines nine times as brightly, a blazing blue-white aureole around which five worlds swing.

The station itself resides in orbit around HIP 25205 d: a cold planet about half as massive as Earth but only slightly smaller, with a surface covered entirely by a world-spanning freshwater ocean. Although the water heavily utilized by Ngoc Linh, the ocean itself lacks life; while aquaculture projects and terraforming plans are in feasibility studies, its toxic atmosphere (composed of roughly ninety percent carbon dioxide) makes the seeding of extant species improbable despite an otherwise ideal climate.

Of more interest is the planet's three moons: HIP 25205 d 1, 2, and 3. The second and third of these are replete with metals and are home to scattered extraction outposts that secure much of the material used to build the station itself, while the first moon benefits from perpetually-illuminated poles that allow hydroponics outposts to flourish with minimal effort.

HIP 25205's other planets are of less note. HIP 25205 a is a hot ice giant predominantly composed of carbon dioxide, nitrogen, water, and sulfur dioxide, while HIP 25205 b and c are rocky worlds; any resources that could be yielded from these planets are outweighed by the cost of protecting from the intense solar radiation so close to the star. HIP 25205 e is an icy world with no features of note beyond its large collection of moons. While every major body in the system has some degree of orbital presence in the form of unmanned omni relays and navigation beacons, the vast majority of infrastructure buildup in the system can be found where it serves the most benefit: near Ngoc Linh itself.