# The Bubble

The "bubble", also referred to interchangeably as "the zone", "the circle", and so on, is an area of space in which blinkspace travel is not safely possible. Any ships traversing the blink in the region — whether they're traveling to or from a gate within the perimeter — have a significant chance of simply never appearing at their destination.

There is no apparent rhyme or reason to ships affected by the anomaly. Losses include independent exploration ships, fuel tankers, tourism liners, and an entire Union light cruiser sent as part of a relief effort. There is no obvious way to predict if a ship will disappear during transit, meaning that effective countermeasures are currently impossible. No trace of affected vessels or evidence of a possible new location exists, and they are currently considered to be vanished with all hands.

The zone was preluded by isolated incidents at the southwestern edge of inhabited space, in which scattered reports of missing shipments and vanishing craft made their way to the USB from [Ngoc Linh Station](ngoc-linh.md). Although Union investigated these incidents, they were exceedingly rare at the time; no conclusive cause could be ascertained that was any more statistically probable than hardware malfunctions. Four months after the incidents began, the zone began expanding in earnest, and the first consistent disappearances began to occur.

USB officials have charted the area as a rough bubble shape (hence the name) originating from uncharted space beyond the southwest Cascade Line and currently growing at a prodigious rate. At the current speed of expansion, it is projected to overtake Harrison Armory colonial space within a year.

Two blink gates are currently enveloped by the bubble: Ngoc Linh Station and Hood Station. Travel in out of these stations via the blink is currently impossible due to the rising danger, and an utter lack of movement within the trade-reliant commerce hubs has led to mounting crises aboard them despite strict rationing measures and information campaigning. On Ngoc Linh in particular, fear and hunger have spread like wildfire, and the gate is teetering on the brink of an all-out collapse; Hood, by comparison, is wobbly but stable, thanks to the presence of humanitarian groups that were previously using the gate as a staging ground and are now positioned to provide aid directly.

There are unverified reports of nearlight ships vanishing during transit as well.