# Timeline
All entries are listed chronologically and in realtime, with T being equal to the moment in time that the [*Cetacean*](aco-cetacean.md) arrives at [Ngoc Linh Station](ngoc-linh.md).

### 5019u
*Note: Researchers currently believe that [the bubble](the-bubble.md) was present for an unknown length of time in unexplored space before being discovered, during which it was undergoing expansion at the same rate as it is in the present day.*

* *T-6 months:* Union administrators on Ngoc Linh Station submit an official report to the Union Science Bureau in which they describe isolated incidents of small ships vanishing during blink transit while en route to or from the station. An official investigation takes place, but yields no conclusive evidence; fewer than one percent of traveling ships are affected by the anomaly. A travel advisory is issued, but owing to a lack of actionable information, no further measures are taken.
* *T-16 weeks:* The bubble reaches Ngoc Linh. Reports of anomalous activity at the gate begin increasing at an exponential rate. Union reopens their investigation.
* *T-14 weeks:* Over one in ten ships inbound or outbound from Ngoc Linh is reported to vanish during blinkspace transit. The station's blink gate is shut down, with exceptions made only for emergency vessels. The station's governor enacts rationing measures to preserve resources for as long as possible until help arrives.
* *T-10 weeks:* Material shortages begin in earnest aboard Ngoc Linh Station. An aid convoy consisting of a light cruiser and a handful of frigates is dispatched from the core worlds, loaded with food and other vital supplies. The frigates arrive safely, but the cruiser — carrying the majority of the aid bound for the gate — vanishes in transit. Shortly thereafter, Hood Station is selected as a staging ground for further relief efforts, and a second convoy embarks from the station on a four-year trip at nearlight; all projections point towards Ngoc Linh starving in the next few months, but there's no other choice.
* *T-7 weeks:* Without warning, the bubble envelops Hood Station. Relief efforts are thrown into chaos as supply lines are severed and dozens of volunteers become trapped themselves. The same day, Union puts out a good Samaritan call: an emergency request for any unaffiliated ships in the area to divert to Ngoc Linh Station to assist in providing humanitarian aid in exchange for manna and full material reimbursement. Among the numerous ships that respond is the *Cetacean*, a ponderous fuel tanker owned by [Access Corridor](access-corridor.md) and carrying a full load of fusion fuel currently bound for inner space. The ship charts a seven-week course for Ngoc Linh.
* *T-6 weeks:* In response to a high Samaritan turnout and under intense pressure, Union makes the extremely controversial decision to reverse the outbound aid convoy, directing it to return to Hood Station. In a press release, Union representatives explain their reasoning that the resources could help stabilize the immediate crisis for at least one blink gate, and that the recruited ships inbound to Ngoc Linh will arrive to provide aid far more quickly than the convoy itself could.
* *T-4 weeks:* As conditions continue to deteriorate aboard Ngoc Linh and Hood, the omninet begins to "flicker" in the zone; outbound communications become spotty and prone to brownouts, and inbound communications increasingly fail to connect at all.
* *T-2 weeks:* Civilians trapped aboard Ngoc Linh successfully execute a conspiracy to force open the gate and send through several refugee vessels in a desperate attempt to reach the core worlds. Five cargo ships loaded with passengers totaling over eight hundred people pass through the gate; only two of them arrive.
* *T-8 days:* Ngoc Linh governor [Novel Greenwater](../act-1/people/novelists/novel.md) states that the station is "out of food". Agricultural operations in the system are forced to conduct a early harvest of immature crops, losing upwards of seventy percent of their expected yield in the process.
* *T-3 days:* Omninet interference reaches a critical point, and contact with Ngoc Linh Station is almost completely lost; the few messages that get through paint a harrowing picture as the last supplies of food begin to dwindle, leaving the station with little but printloaf. Communications at Hood Station are not interrupted, leading the USB to theorize that interference increases with proximity to the relative center of the zone.
* *T-0:* The *Cetacean* arrives in HIP 25205.