# Gian Point

Gian Point is a lifeless planet located in the unknown system, and the only terrestrial body in the system larger than a moon. Long-range scans indicate the planet's nonviability for human settlement; its oxygen-nitrogen atmosphere is extensively polluted with radioactive contaminants that make it unbreathably toxic, and a runaway greenhouse effect has heated the average surface temperature to around 140 degrees Fahrenheit. There appear to be some hardy indigenous species of flora, but no multicellular animal life is currently detectable.

In the long ago past, Gian Point appears to have been an inhabited world; thousands of years have taken their toll, but surface imaging shows the occasional wreck or long-empty remains of small population centers. The largest signifier of its troubled history lies near its equator: the wreck of a capital ship, having fallen to the earth from orbit and gouging a miles-long track of devastation in the process. Otherwise, outside of several Legion-controlled mining operations, the planet appears abandoned.

Gian Point appears to be a fixation point of Legion. [Metavault TONATIUH](metavault-tonatiuh.md) shadows the planet's surface at all times, and public broadcasts speak of the world as though it is being prepared for settlement — showing images of verdant fields, sunny seas, and beautiful woods that do not exist.

## Surroundings

The star system that Gian Point is housed in is currently undocumented and uncharted. Referencing existing constellations and calculating their relative position to the location they're viewed from places the area somewhere southwest of inhabited space, some light years away from what used to be the closest blink gate — Ngoc Linh Station. Other than Gian Point and a number of rocky planetoids and gas giants in orbit around the class-K star, the system appears to be devoid of objects, infrastructure, or inhabitants.

Ngoc Linh itself has emerged into the center of a dense web of gargantuan wax tendrils snaring it in place. These tendrils, hundreds of kilometers long, start and end in empty vacuum, but appear to nonetheless hold the station in place; while the rest of the system orbits its home sun, Ngoc Linh does not move. Every single one of the dozens of vessels that have gone missing the past months traversing blinkspace has ended up here, too — caught in the web, trapped and unable to escape. Many of them are ruined, half-destroyed, or abandoned; many more are not, and remain the homes of their inhabitants, who have done what they can to subsist on their own or in small communities by pooling resources and making use of their reserves.

Many of the larger ships, such as the *Chekhov's Gun* or the UNS-CV *Rio Paraná,* appear to have been directly appropriated by [Legion](people/legion.md) and pressed into its fleet — scoured of any organic crew and puppeted autonomously with colonies of wax infesting their computer cores. Others appear to have been destroyed by its armed forces at random. Most of them, however, remain trapped in their current locations, although even the largest among them are tiny compared to the massive bulk of the city-station that is Ngoc Linh.
