# Gray Towns

Some hundred kilometers to the east and south of [Evergreen](evergreen.md) are dozens of the so-called “Gray Towns” - the “gray” in the name describing their legal relationship to [Landmark](../factions/landmark-colonial.md). Liu Maize and Merricktown are the largest of these settlements. They serve as social hubs for the uncounted, noncitizen population that lives around Evergreen.

The Gray Towns are primarily agricultural, with little heavy industry beyond logging and some light, surface-level mining. Few buildings stand above two stories and the tallest reach only four. Save for the crossroad clusters of buildings that form their civic centers, the Gray Towns are very lightly populated. Most people live in small clusters of two to four families working many hundreds of acres, or as hired hands on those large agricultural properties.

Loosely policed by Evergreen’s militia, the people of the Gray Towns are not considered to be citizens of Evergreen. Instead, Landmark regards them as wildcat colonists and persona non grata — but in practice, the Gray Towns are as vital to Evergreen's economy as it is to theirs, and there's a significant amount of exchange between the three settlements; good relations are in all their best interests.

In response to the ongoing [raids](../factions/huc.md), the Gray Towns have raised to a small corps of armed guards being recruited from willing bodies in order to man garrison checkpoints and patrol the roads. Many independent populations have thrown their lot in with the towns after attacks drove them away from their homes for fear of safety; the small family groups bring with them stories of eerie lights and sounds, trees torn to their stumps, isolated farms burned to the ground and trampled into the earth, and irradiated crops withering on the stem — all descriptions markedly different from the ones around Evergreen, but ones that the main colony hasn't had the time or resources to think about with so many problems of their own.

For more information, see the towns' respective pages: [Liu Maize,](gray-towns/liu-maize.md) [Merricktown](gray-towns/merricktown.md)