# Captain Jeremiah Quay (he/him) - Levelheaded, Unflappable, Warm

Captain Jeremiah Quay (preferred name Quay) is the captain of the *Cetacean*. An IPS-N careerist, Quay has lived for a staggering 203 subjective years, with just over ninety of those years spent working for IPS-N across a multitude of assignments and contracts. The *Cetacean* has been under his command since 5001u.

Quay stands at around six and a half feet tall, with olive skin, small green eyes, and a taut build. His hair is a messy, short-cut scruff of light white, with trimmed sideburns running down the length of his face. He has maintained much of his functionality into old age through modern medicine: many of his organs have failed over time and been swapped with cloned replacements, more than half a dozen bones have been replaced with alloy/composite prostheses, and a modern Panacea gland has been purpose-tailored to staving off the onset of dementia. Even at 203, Quay can run, shout, exercise, and fight if needed; his capacity is much diminished from his younger years, but remains well around the average — a feat he is very proud of.

When not needed in the bridge, Quay's usual haunts include the canteen and the fore observation bubble, where he can be found talking or killing time, typically over a cup of something. This is surprisingly common; as a rule, Quay tends not to exercise the "captain" part of actually being a ship captain. He spends little time on the bridge, and this habit has slowly extended to much the rest of the ship's executive track as it became clear that the *Cetacean* needing direct orders was the exception rather than the rule. This behavior comes to the chagrin of Access Corridor itself, which, by virtue of Quay being appointed directly by IPS-N, cannot meaningfully penalize him other than reporting the behavior to his superiors — who are not inclined to take the subsidiary's demand for professionality even remotely seriously.

Quay is generally calm and amiable. The only times he raises his voice are when he's shouting across the room to make himself heard, and throughout the entirety of his tenure, he has never become any more visibly angry or upset with somebody than pursed lips and a sigh. He is loathe to exercise his authority at all, only stepping in with his rank to coordinate response to an emergency situation or to defuse heated disagreements; the man's presence alone, however, is often enough to help cool heads win out.

## Current Status

Quay has played an extensive role in the past several months as one of the team's chief advisors, and continues to work closely with the team in their operations — hearing what they have to say, giving them his thoughts, and generally serving as a high-level coordinator. He's listened to and authorized each of their past operations, although his direct role in their prosecution has always been limited.

Quay was severely injured during Ngoc Linh's sudden translocation, and is currently bedridden while recovering from several fractures. In the meantime, he's invested executive authority for the team's active operations onto the team themselves — although he still requests that he be briefed and spoken with when possible.
